# Sparta DevOps Project – Containerised App Deployment <!-- omit from toc -->

- [Overview](#overview)
  - [Architecture](#architecture)
  - [The Sparta Test App](#the-sparta-test-app)
- [Setup Guide](#setup-guide)
  - [Docker](#docker)
    - [Sparta App](#sparta-app)
    - [Database](#database)
- [Commentary](#commentary)

## Overview

This repo contains a user guide and configuration files to create a cloud-hosted deployment of a two-tier application, using Docker containerisation, Kubernetes orchestration, persistent volumes and automated horizontal scaling.

### Architecture

A single AWS EC2 instance is used to host all aspects of the application, including:

- An nginx reverse proxy for ingress to the Sparta app
- Installations of Docker, minikube and kubectl to run and manage the containerised components
- Kubernetes Metrics Server to provide data for autoscaling
- A Kubernetes persistent volume (PV) to preserve database data
- A Mongo database Kubernetes deployment and service, with a persistent volume claim (PVC) to the PV.
- A Sparta app Kubernetes deployment and service, connected to the Mongo database, with horizontal pod autoscaling in place.

<!-- INSERT DIAGRAM -->

### The Sparta Test App

The [Sparta Test App](https://github.com/LSF970/se-sparta-test-app) is a Node.js application features three endpoints that are used in this project:

- `/` - The main page of the app to test basic operation and connectivity.
- `/posts` - A page of posts from the database, to test connectivity to the database, seeding, and persistent data.
- `/fibonacci/<number>` - A page to easily generate application load by calculating Fibonacci numbers, to test horizontal autoscaling.

The application is accessed on port 3000.

## Setup Guide

### Docker

#### Sparta App

The following process was used to get local Sparta app files built into a Docker Image and published on Docker Hub. It assumes you have Docker installed and a Docker Hub account; replace `<Docker Hub username>` with your username if using this process:

- With the Sparta app files in an `app` subdirectory, the following `Dockerfile` was put in the parent directory:

  ```
  # from which image
  FROM node:20-alpine

  # label
  LABEL MAINTAINER="<e-mail address>"

  # set the default working directory to /usr/src/app
  WORKDIR /usr/src/app

  # copy app folder (to same place as Dockerfile, then copy to default location in container)
  COPY app /usr/src/app

  # install dependencies with npm
  RUN npm install

  # expose port
  EXPOSE 3000

  # CMD [node app.js or npm start]
  CMD [ "npm", "start" ]
  ```

- Build the application image with Docker:
  ```bash
  docker build -t <Docker Hub username>/sparta-test-app:v1 .
  ```
- Run the application locally on port 3000 and confirm OK:
  ```bash
  docker run --name sparta-app -d -p 3000:3000 <Docker Hub username>/sparta-test-app:v1
  ```
- Push the image to Docker Hub:
  ```bash
  docker push <Docker Hub username>/sparta-test-app:v1
  ```
- Delete local container and image (to force Docker to pull from Docker Hub):
  ```bash
  docker rm -f sparta-app
  docker rmi <Docker Hub username>/sparta-test-app:v1
  ```
- Run the application from Docker Hub image and confirm OK:
  ```bash
  docker run --name sparta-app -d -p 3000:3000 <Docker Hub username>/sparta-test-app:v1
  ```
  The Docker image generated by the process above is available on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/mlewissparta/sparta-test-app).

#### Database

## Commentary

Contribution guidelines for future developers

Blockers – Suggestion: what was the issue, reason for the issue, solution

What you learnt

Benefits you saw personally from the project
